Update Articles (#72)
num42/n42-web-middleman: source/blog/articles/2018-07-24-xcodegen/article.html.md

![](assets/Title.png)

> # Better iOS projects: Getting (nearly) rid of .xcodeproj-Files - A (not so) short Introduction to Xcodegen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Better iOS projects: Getting (nearly) rid of `.xcodeproj`-Files - A (not so) short Introduction to Xcodegen
```

> In the series “Better iOS projects”, we have a look at the various tools and environments that are useful to have a more convenient and efficient handling of iOS Projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the series “Better iOS projects”, we have a look at the various tools and environments that are useful to have a more convenient and efficient handling of iOS projects.
```

## Updates
- 23. February 2021: Small updates (e.g. SwiftUI) and additional integrations (CocoaPods, SPM)

> - 28. July 2018: Removed "brew tap" call, as it is no longer necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 28. July 2018: Removed `brew tap` call, as it is no longer necessary.
```

> ## What is the problem with xcodeprojects?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the problem with `.xcodeproj`s?
```

> `Xcode` uses a project file, the `.xcodeproj` file, to bundle source code and resources for the IDE and build tools to digest. Though this works quite well most of the time, it has some downsides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Xcode uses a project file, the `.xcodeproj` file, to bundle source code and resources for the IDE and build tools to digest. Though this works quite well most of the time, it has some downsides:
```

- Though you can manually resolve merge conflicts in this file, e.g. if source code files or resources have been added on different branches, you can never be sure that the file is correct afterwards.

> - Syncing the folder structure on disk and the group structure in the project is mainly a manual process that sometimes leads to confusion. There already are tools to mitigate this, like `synx` or the sort functionality of the `xcodeproj` gem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Syncing the folder structure on disk and the group structure in the project is mainly a manual process that sometimes leads to confusion. There are already tools to mitigate this, like `synx` or the sort functionality of the `xcodeproj` gem.
```

Here are the two most important features of Xcodegen:

-   You can define every kind of Xcode target (application, frameworks etc.) for all sorts of platforms (iOS, tvOS, macOS and watchOS) this way.
-   It also allows to connect a folder of source files to a target, making it easier to manage which source code files are contained in which target.

> Though `xcodegen` is still quite a young project, it can already do a lot. Sometimes workarounds are needed, but the author is quite active on GitHub and bugs are often fixed only hours after reporting them. A big thanks for that!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though XcodeGen is still quite a young project, it can already do a lot. Sometimes workarounds are needed, but the author is quite active on GitHub and bugs are often fixed only hours after reporting them. A big thanks for that!
```

> -   You can define every kind of Xcode target (application, frameworks etc.) for all sorts of platforms (iOS, tvOS, macOS, watchOS) this way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   You can define every kind of Xcode target (application, frameworks etc.) for all sorts of platforms (iOS, tvOS, macOS and watchOS) this way.
```

> -   it also allows to connect a folder of source files to a target, making it easier to manage which source code files are contained in which target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   It also allows to connect a folder of source files to a target, making it easier to manage which source code files are contained in which target.
```

> Though `xcodegen` is still quite a young project, it can already do a lot. Sometimes, you have to find workarounds for something, but the author is quite active on github and bugs are oftenly fixed only hours after reporting them. A big thanks for that!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though `xcodegen` is still quite a young project, it can already do a lot. Sometimes workarounds are needed, but the author is quite active on GitHub and bugs are often fixed only hours after reporting them. A big thanks for that!
```

## Generating an App Project

> First, create a new blank Single Page iOS App with `Xcode` to initially get all the necessary `.swift`, `.xcassets` etc. files. In the project creation dialogue,s elect UIKit. Xcodegen works for SwiftUI also, but the example in the end makes use of TinyConstraints, an AutoLayout Library, that is best demonstrated using UIKit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, create a new blank Single Page iOS App with `Xcode` to initially get all the necessary `.swift`, `.xcassets` etc. files. In the project creation dialogue, select UIKit. Xcodegen works for SwiftUI also, but the example in the end makes use of TinyConstraints, an AutoLayout Library, that is best demonstrated using UIKit.
```

> First, create a new blank Single Page iOS App with `Xcode` to initially get all the necessary `.swift`, `.xcassets` etc. files. In the project creation dialogue,s elect UIKit. Xcodegen works for SwiftUI also, but the example in the end makes use of TinyConstraints, an AutoLayout Library, that is best demonstrated using UIKit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a new blank Single Page iOS App with Xcode to initially get all the necessary `.swift`, `.xcassets` etc. files. In the project creation dialogue,s elect UIKit. Xcodegen works for SwiftUI also, but the example in the end makes use of TinyConstraints, an AutoLayout Library, that is best demonstrated using UIKit.
```

> First, create a new blank Single Page iOS App with `Xcode` to initially get all the necessary `.swift`, `.xcassets` etc. files. In the project creation dialogue, select UIKit. Xcodegen works for SwiftUI also, but the example in the end makes use of TinyConstraints, an AutoLayout Library, that is best demonstrated using UIKit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a new blank Single Page iOS App with Xcode to initially get all the necessary `.swift`, `.xcassets` etc. files. In the project creation dialogue, select UIKit. Xcodegen works for SwiftUI also, but the example in the end makes use of TinyConstraints, an AutoLayout Library, that is best demonstrated using UIKit.
```

    ```
![](assets/fruit.png)

> 3.  Add an Info.plist with these contents to the "XcodegenAppCore" folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Add an Info.plist with these contents to the `XcodegenAppCore` folder:
```

        - target: XcodegenAppCore
    ```

>     To the "XcodegenApp" target. The result should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To the `XcodegenApp` target. The result should look like this:
```

    
    ```yml
    XcodegenApp:
      type: application
      platform: iOS
      deploymentTarget: "14.0"
      sources:
        #Sources
        - path: "XcodegenTest"
      dependencies:
        - target: XcodegenAppCore
    ```
    

>      Close `Xcode`, run `xcodegen`, then run the project. Ok, it's building, but nothing is happening yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Close Xcode, run `xcodegen`, then run the project. Ok, it's building, but nothing is happening yet.
```

6. To test the framework in an UIKit app, add

    ```swift
    import XcodegenAppCore
    ```

    to a ViewController and add

    ```swift
    print(Fruit.apple)
    ```

    to the `viewDidLoad()`.

  If you created a SwiftUI project, you can change the view to this to test the framework:

  ```swift
  import SwiftUI
  import XcodegenAppCore // import the framework

  struct ContentView: View {
    var body: some View {
      Text("Hello, world!")
          .padding()
        .onAppear {
          print(Fruit.apple) // Use something defined in the framework when the view appears
        }
    }
  ```

The debug logger now proudly confirms you as the owner of your very own fruit related
framework 🍎 🍌 🍒.

## Adding Dependencies
### CocoaPods

> You can simply integrate the generated project with Cocoapods, like you would integrate any other project, just make sure to call `pod install` after every time you run xcodegen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can simply integrate the generated project with Cocoapods, like you would integrate any other project, just make sure to call `pod install` after every time you run XcodeGen.
```

### Swift Package Manager (SPM)

> Xcodegen has direct support for Apple's own Swift Package manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XcodeGen has direct support for Apple's own Swift Package manager.
```

1. Add

```yml
packages:
  TinyConstraints: 
    from: "4.0.1"
    url: "https://github.com/roberthein/TinyConstraints"
```

> at the same level of the project.yml as the `targets` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
at the same level of the `project.yml` as the `targets` section.
```

2.  Add this line to your `XcodegenApp` target's dependencies in `project.yml`:

```yml
  - package: TinyConstraints
```

> Close `Xcode`, run `xcodegen`, then run the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Close Xcode, run `xcodegen`, then run the project.
```

### Carthage

> Yet another way to handle dependencies on iOS is `carthage`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yet another way to handle dependencies on iOS is Carthage.
```

> `Xcodegen` makes it very easy to manage carthage dependencies, so let's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XcodeGen makes it very easy to manage Carthage dependencies, so let's
```
